# Working With Errors in Solidity

- Errors can occur at compile time or runtime.
- Solidity is compiled to byte code and there a syntax error check happens at compile-time, while runtime error occurs mainly while executing the contracts. 
  - Some of the runtime errors are out-of-gas error, data type overflow error, divide by zero error, array-out-of-index error, etc.
## Following are the methods used in error handling :

### 1. Throw
1.	The user can use “Throw” keyword to cause an error if required.
2.	It does not return any Ether spent but rollbacks changes to the data alone  
 **Syntax-assert(msg.sender == owner);**

- The assert(), require() and revert() functions were introduced in Solidity version 0.4.10.
### 2. Require 
1. is used to validate user inputs.
2. Used to check pre-requisite conditions and throw an exception if the condition is not satisfied
3. If you perform an external function call targeting a contract that contains no code.
4.	Validate the state condition prior to execution.
5. If you perform an external function call targeting a contract that contains no code.  
**Syntax : require(condition, error message)**
### 3. Assert
1. Check for overflow/underflow .i.e. c=a*b; assert(c > b)
2. It is similar to “require” operation.
3.	Validate state after making changes.
4. It does not return any gas consumed
5.	Generally it is used towards the end of a function.  
**Syntax : assert(condition, error message)**

### 4. Revert
1. It will still undo all state changes, but it will be handled differently than an “invalid opcode” in two ways:
  - It will allow you to return a value.
  - It will refund any remaining gas to the caller.
2. It takes an optional string message containing details about the error that is passed back to the caller.  
**Syntax-if(msg.sender != owner) { revert(); }**
